---
layout: post
title: rest
date: "2015-02-23"
---

<div class="message">
  "Activity and rest are two vital aspects of life. To find a balance in them is a skill in itself. Wisdom is knowing when to have rest, when to have activity, and how much of each to have. Finding them in each other - activity in rest and rest in activity - is the ultimate freedom.” Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Celebrating Silence: Excerpts from Five Years of Weekly Knowledge 1995-2000
</div>

I'm dealing with a little foot injury right now, and after a huge block of consistent training I struggled at first with having to take some time off. But a few things have helped me become more relaxed about this otherwise undesirable necessity.

1) **The weather** Winter training is always accompanied by a compulsive checking of the Environment Canada weather service, anticipating how cold it's going to be today, tomorrow, for the rest of the week. Since you have to adapt your training to fit the conditions (e.g. no speed work when the sidewalks are skating rinks) it's vital to stay up-to-date on the changing forecasts. Funnily this preoccupation with the weather is the same when I'm _not_ running. It's a case of fear-of-missing-out. If the weather is terrible I don't feel like I'm missing out on some really great, inspiring runs; I'm only avoiding some tough, possibly miserable, probably unpleasant ones. Sometimes these can turn out to be inspiring workouts in their own way, but there's some comfort in knowing that I'm not missing an amazing trail run at dawn in beautiful spring conditions. 

2) **Alternatives** When my training volume increases I sometimes feel a bit of anxiety about how all-consuming it becomes. While the time requirements of a mileage increase alone aren't huge, it also comes with an increase in the auxiliary exercises like food preparation, stretching, strengthening, foam rolling etc. Other self-development projects can easily get pushed aside, and being able to once again pursue these in earnest is a nice side-effect of this involuntary running break. I've been meditating and working on yoga poses every day, learning to code (better) in Python, writing and reading more. It's a more balanced existence, where my life isn't focused entirely on improving one thing. 

3) **Rest** Coming off some huge mileage weeks, I'm confident that a small break from running is in my best interest. I may lose a little bit of that hard-earned fitness, but I have no doubt this will be made up for in the mental and physical freshness I'll have when I come back. Slogging through some big weeks in less than ideal conditions can take it's toll on my desire to run. Some cold, dark, snowy, windy mornings I've needed a concerted exertion of willpower and contemplation of my long-term goals to get me out the door. Nothing lights up my enthusiasm for running like not being _able_ to run. Can't having something always makes us want it more. 

4) **Perspective** My recent thoughts on this warrant their own post, but I'll sum them up in a paragraph. Taking a broader perspective always calms my anxiety, whether about training related things, job stress or anything else. This past week I've started every day with an assessment of my foot. How much does it hurt? Is it better than yesterday? Can I run today? If I let them, these become the most important questions I face every morning; and if I let them, they would overshadow the rest of my life. They could easily run amuck as I worry and obsess over the uncertainty about how long I'll need to take off. Stepping back to see just how narrow that focus is snaps me back to reality. This injury will not matter much when it comes to my whole life, and my life will matter even less when it comes to the whole world, and what does the whole world matter when you think about the universe? And what if there are infinite universes? There is no end to the insignificance of this one thing in my life that I'm letting overrun my brain. On a recent road trip we listened to a podcast with an astronomer, and the discussion about questions of civilizations, infinities and alternate universes reminded me of how comforting our insignificance can be, and how important it is to maintain the right level of perspective.